>> Speaker 1: This is Tailwind four,
right?
>> Steve Kinney: Yes.
>> Speaker 1: And so
we're going to build all this stuff up and
it basically ends up building a static
site and then Tailwind five comes along.
I know it doesn't exist per se,
but what's the impact?
>> Steve Kinney: I can't tell
you the 4 to 5 transition,
I can tell you having lived through
the 3 to 4 transition, not that hard.
All the classes stayed the same, the big
changes were because they were using
post CSS for whatever, the configuration,
all the variables and settings.
That was a JavaScript file originally and
the new system is a CSS
configuration file and
there was some tooling
to migrate you over.
I think I actually have the list
on the site that I compiled,
so there's the new features,
more stuff, that's great.
The configuration,
there's like the default
placeholder color changed,
do you know what I mean?
I think the default border color
might have changed like from
like one gray to a more different gray or
something like that.
But if you had any of those,
like now defaults to current color,
which is whatever the text
color is instead of gray.
And there was a tool,
if you're interpolating CSS variables,
it's parentheses instead of brackets.
I will say that it was such a not thing
that it didn't hurt, so I'm not super
worried about that, and like,
this isn't forcing you to upgrade either.
If you want the new CSS features,
great, I mean, it doesn't force you to
update anything, But I will say that
insofar that, it wasn't like a major.
Even though this was a major
rethinking going from having it
mostly done in JavaScript
through a post CSS plugin to
everything is CSS all the way down,
not that big.
I think I might even start
on Tailwind 2 if I'm not,
I think I don't remember what
the version was four years ago,
I'm not pulling out the release
notes in front of you.
So I think I have now been through two
major version bumps and if you notice,
my answer includes almost no
war stories at this point.
I think I went from 2 to 3 and 3 to 4,
even in the large app that we work on.
I think it was like two
days on the large app and
it took 20 minutes on my own site and
like for our older projects,
like conference websites,
I just didn't update them.
>> Speaker 1: Just let them be.
>> Steve Kinney: But
even when I did, not that bad.
>> Speaker 3: Do you have any resources
for how developers can choose the right
colors in UI design when they don't
have access to a UI or UX design?
>> Steve Kinney: This is my favorite,
this is one I use all the time and
like in the Figma course, I show you
that there's actually a Figma plugin so
that like designers can
have the same ones.
But check this out, you pick a color,
you can pick your happy favorite color.
I just picked different shades of blue and
it will go ahead,
you can actually even do some edits to
this as well as like what you want.
Let's say you don't want this
many colors stresses you out,
you can just make it fewer or
whatever, where'd that go?
I'm just changing
the saturation that went.
Anyway, you can go ahead and
you can create the entire color palette,
hit export and
get literally the thing you can copy and
paste out of this and
be able to go ahead and use.
So I like that a lot, there's also things
that I'm not even sure how good they are,
I've just used them forever.
Is it Color Scheme Designer?,
is that what it's called?
I'm also not a designer,
so don't trust me,
this is why I let Candice do this work,
Candace is good at it.
We can kind of go and create color scheme
systems and then, I'm not gonna lie to
you, I picked the color I like and
I asked ChatGPT to give me the rest of it.
Now tell me what the complimentary
success, warning, error,
whatever color is,
hire a real designer, to be clear, but
if you don't have a real designer,
that's probably good enough.
>> Speaker 3: I'll add to that our design
to Code Learning path is a good resource,
specifically Sarah Drasner's design for
developers.
>> Steve Kinney: Go take that.
>> Speaker 3: One more question came in.
>> Steve Kinney: Love it.
>> Speaker 3: How would you set
up Tailwind in a mono repo?
Would you set up separate packages for
Tailwind with Storybook to develop
the completed components and styles and
import them for
the other packages or apps?
>> Steve Kinney: Can you
repeat the question?
>> Speaker 3: I guess the general question
is how would you set up Tailwind in a mono
repo?
>> Steve Kinney: You got a few options,
you can do the whole rigmarole where you
like, package it up, so on and so
forth, the other option is where is it?
>> Speaker 3: I think they're specifically
kind of interested in like the reuse of
it across.
>> Steve Kinney: Like it's a CSS file,
and so you mono repo it and
do like the NPM packages thing and
that will all work.
The other option is like,
you can legit reference it,
you know what I mean?, And pull it in.
I would arguably, if you want everything
to have the same style and listen to
the same CSS variables, having one file,
that's the source of truth makes sense.
Now if you do need different
versions in different packages,
but I think where CSS in particular,
if one has PNPM or
TurboRepo set up make it its own package.
But if it is simply like there's just
a different directory structure kind
of monorepo, you can just reference
the CSS file, and that is usually what I.
We have always done, we have this or at
temporal we had this thing where our SaaS,
cloud product and
open source repo were two different repos.
So it was a GitHub action syncing them up,
some of that all depends,
but at the end of the day,
it's one CSS file.
You can either reference it, you can
package it up, it doesn't really matter,
it's effectively all the configuration
is typically a single CSS file.
>> Speaker 1: Just to piggyback on that,
isn't there a compiling function?
So project A could use this set of classes
and project B would use these set of
classes, you'd have to have the superset
in the CSS if you're going to have one.
>> Steve Kinney: What spits out of the
build processes would all be different,
but the configuration of the variables,
you probably want to share that across
all of them, that's a single CSS file.
That is just the configuration
of Tailwind and
all your CSS variables and that brand
color as Steve was talking about,
maybe if there's some other spacing,
some other different settings effectively.
>> Speaker 1: That is usually one
not particularly long CSS file,
where you might have all the brand colors,
everything and
that can live in a shared directory in
a mono repo, it can be synced across.
>> Steve Kinney: Honestly,
depending on how often it changes,
I'm gonna be like between
Temporal's marketing website and
the UI, do you know how they
get synced up?, copy paste.
Works for our cloud product and
our open source product is actually
a GitHub action syncing it all up.
But it changes so
infrequently that no one thought
to do that especially no
one really needed to do it.
I think it depends, but
at the end of the day,
it's really the only thing that is
gonna be unique outside of the actual
utility classes that
you're using in your code.
Which is your normal monorepo problems
that you already solve in your code
is a single configuration file.
That could even be like curl it down from
a source of truth on every package it
installed.
You know what I mean?, it is uniquely
simple, well, thank you so much.